>> Mike North: In this next section, we're
going to take a close look at several
tools that we can use to work
with our package manifests.
Establish consistency across our monorepo.
Detect varied use of dependencies,
meaning you have six versions
of REACT across your monorepo.
How do you deal with that?
As well as trimming away unused
dependencies and exports.
So a bunch of things that sort of relate
to working with your package manifests and
your external dependency graph.
And these are some really nice kind
of standalone projects that you
could layer on top of pnpm or
an NPM workspace or a Yarn workspace.
They all sort of work with any
monorepo that sort of aligns with
those conventions.
So first we're going to take
a look at many package and
the main purpose we're going
to use many package for
is linting our package manifests.
So if you wanted to have a really
opinionated formatting of your
package.json, like alphabetizing
your dependencies, for example.
This is kind of like prettier for
package JSON,
if you want to think about it that way.
Not just for formatting JSON and
getting your quotes right and
you're indenting, but more having
a standardized way of formatting things so
that as people change, go in and
make changes to package JSON.
You're keeping the increment
of change very small.
Like nice readable diffs instead of seeing
that somebody moved six lines around or
something like that.
Let's begin by installing the Manypkg CLI.
So we'll go back to our environment,
our dev environment, and
we'll install this package.
And I'm in the workspace
very important here.
Like this is where you want
your workspace level tooling.
So we've installed any package CLI.
By the way, there's an NPM scope.
I know you've been working with
packages like this before, but
like this is an example of something that
has a programmatic interface for like
consuming this as a library as well as
being able to use a CLI that they provide,
the next step we're going to take is we're
going to run pnpm many package check.
By the way, if you're still using NPM and
you have to use like npm run or
npx like this.
This is the thing I really enjoy about
pnpm, the fact that YARN does this as
well, where if you have something
that's in your Node Modules bin folder,
something here, you can just invoke it
directly menu package has a check command.
Remember, this is different from the check
that we've been running that relates to
svelte and type checking.
Let's see what it finds.
Workspace is valid, that's interesting.
Am I in the right spot?
[LAUGH] I thought I left
some problems here.
Well, let's look at the documentation and
let's create a problem for
ourselves and see if we can detect that
maybe I fixed some things on the fly or
fixed some things as we were going.
So Manypkg check runs checks
against your Monorepo.
An example of this is having
peer dependencies that are not
dev dependencies and
having their range specifiers meet.
So we don't have any of those
root has production dependencies.
We could certainly do that.
So let's go to our package JSON here and
let's say many package CLI
is a production dependency.
>> Mike North: This will
tell us if it's working.
Hey, great.
The root package JSON
contains dependencies.
This is disallowed dependencies versus
dev dependencies in a private package.
They don't affect anything and
it creates confusion.
This is important.
It's not like, I want to be clear,
private package.
In this case, it kind of means two things.
One is literally this, which is,
is this published to NPM or not?
But the other is,
is this a leaf level dependency or not?
So, for example, in this package here,
like if we were,
let's say, let's say we had
a step where we built things and
then we want to slim down
the set of dependencies,
we need to run the UI in production,
it does matter that we have
some runtime dependencies here.
So I would argue this is a little bit
of an imprecise way of describing this.
It's not about private packages.
It's about being a leaf level
dependency versus being
a dependency that has dependencies.
If we need express as a transitive
dependency, despite this
being a private package, like if we
were to move this up all of these and
say these are all just needed for dev,
that's going to be a problem, right?
Because remember, there are build
commands with each of these.
Each of your build tools,
they have a mode where you could say,
only install my prod dependencies.
Sorry, not build tools.
Your package managers have
only installed prod stuff.
That's an example of
something that it can detect.
If you were to say fix.
I think it's not fix, it's fix.
You can see that it went through and
it actually did this.
Rename for
us the kinds of things that it can detect.
They have a bunch of different rules here.
Invalid package names.
This is about you've gotten too cute
with your Monorepo package name.
You've put an emoji in there like
a double width UTF16 character.
And it's just not gonna,
NPM will be unhappy with that.
This is the one.
This is the one that I was trying
to run us into and I forgot a step.
So let's do this.
I'm gonna have my Monorepo's v2 URL here.
I want to go back to my code, and
I'm going to say in my root package JSON,
I'm going to have repository and then URL.
And now let's run this.
Wait, is it just this?
Yep, there it goes.
So this is a nice thing that many
package is going to detect for us.
Like in an ideal world you could say
I have one git repo for my monorepo.
But ultimately when you publish to NPM,
if we go to npm.js, oops,
beach balling, and let's go to Babel,
Babel preset TypeScript.
You kinda wanna have a homepage or
something that, well,
maybe this is a bad example.
Here's the point.
There's a repository URL on each package
you publish and one option for doing this.
And I can switch to a branch that I
have here where I've got all of the work
that we've already done today or
that we will get through today.
If I go to packages and then UI,
you could have your own readme for
each package and
what you'd want to do is say all right,
well I have a repo for
the whole monorepo and I have a URL there.
Now, what many package is
trying to get us to do is
say there's a UI path
here that we can go and
add in each package's package JSON,
not just for the whole repo.
So if we go up here, repository and
paste this in and grab that and
we're just gonna change the name,
that last little token in the string.
So we'll add this to server as well.
I know I'm going a little fast here,
but server and then models.
Oops, I think I copied the whole line.
Great.
Now if we run this check again,
it's going to say it has a repository.
It has a repository field
of this when it should be.
>> Speaker 2: You have
the branch name in the,
you tree/subs instead of-
>> Mike North: Yes.
This is even more sophisticated
than I hoped, right?
You wanna have,
this is steering me towards a mistake
that I could have made here.
So it's pretty sophisticated and
it's a small number of checks
that many package enforces,
but generally a good thing to use.
Now there are other things that this does
which is it allows you to run scripts for
all packages within your monorepo.
But bluntly I would use pnpm for this.
In future steps, we'll use Lerna
because this is not going to
be as aware of the dependency graph.
You'll see that a lot of
monorepo tools have this feature
where you're going to install
a bunch of these tools and
you'll have 12 different ways you
can run a task in each package.
But what you want to lean towards is the
ones that let you do interesting things
we're going to see later in the course.
Like Lerna, an NX is where that
gets really sophisticated and
what you should lean on.
But this still has a unique feature of
lending those package JSONs and giving
you a very some helpful feedback where
you can even see the stuff I'm doing.
It's busting me on because I'm pasting
in strings that are not quite right.